---
title: CompTIA Security Domain Q&A
categories:
- cyber
excerpt: |
## CompTIA Security Domain excerpt
feature_text: |  
  ## @esccode
  “Insanity is doing the same thing, over and over again, but expecting different results.” ― Narcotics Anonymous
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
aside: true
---
- [Exam Tips: CompTIA Security+ (SY0-601)](#exam-tips-comptia-security-sy0-601)
  - [The Security+ Exam](#the-security-exam)
  - [Exploring the Security+ Domains](#exploring-the-security-domains)
  - [Inside the Security+ Exam](#inside-the-security-exam)
- [1.0 Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities 24%](#10-attacks-threats-and-vulnerabilities-24)
  - [Malware](#malware)
  - [Understanding Attackers](#understanding-attackers)
  - [Threat Intelligence](#threat-intelligence)
  - [Social Engineering Attacks](#social-engineering-attacks)
  - [Common Attacks](#common-attacks)
  - [Understanding Vulnerability Types](#understanding-vulnerability-types)
  - [Vulnerability Scanning](#vulnerability-scanning)
  - [Penetration Testing and Exercises](#penetration-testing-and-exercises)
- [2.0 Architecture and Design 21%](#20-architecture-and-design-21)
  - [Software Development Lifecycle](#software-development-lifecycle)
  - [Software Quality Assurance](#software-quality-assurance)
  - [Application Attacks](#application-attacks)
  - [Secure Coding Practices](#secure-coding-practices)
- [3.0 Implementation 25%](#30-implementation-25)
  - [Encryption](#encryption)
  - [Symmetric Cryptography](#symmetric-cryptography)
  - [Key Management](#key-management)
  - [Public Key Infrastructure](#public-key-infrastructure)
  - [Cryptanalytic Attacks](#cryptanalytic-attacks)
  - [Cryptographic Applications](#cryptographic-applications)
- [4.0 Operations and Incident Response 16%](#40-operations-and-incident-response-16)
- [5.0 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 14%](#50-governance-risk-and-compliance-14)

## Exam Tips: CompTIA Security+ (SY0-601)

### The Security+ Exam

- Which certifications are required to become a CompTIA Security Analytics Expert (CSAE)?  
**`Security+, CySA+, and CASP+`**  
When you earn all three of these certifications, you are named a CompTIA Security Analytics Expert and you can use the CSAE title.

- How should you best prepare for the Security+ exam?  
**`Study using a diverse set of resources`**.  
  There are multiple resources you should use to study for this exam, including the book, practice questions, and study groups.

- How much time will you have to complete the exam?  
**`90 minutes`**  
You will have 90 minutes to answer 90 questions on the Security+ exam.

- How do entry level-positions in cybersecurity provide massive job growth within that field?  
**`They provide exposure to many different areas of information security`**.  
Entry-level cybersecurity positions provide exposure to many aspects of IT as well as hands-on experience needed to move up the ranks.

- Why is it important to earn an information security certification as a step in your career development?  
**`It shows that you have made an investment in your career`**.  
Earning a security certification shows your potential employers that you made an investment in your career and in information security.

### Exploring the Security+ Domains

- Which course in the Security+ Cert Prep series covers firewalls, routers, switches, proxies, and VPN concentrators?  
**`Network Security`**  
Firewalls, routers, switches, proxies, and VPN concentrators are aspects of networks, which are covered in the Network Security course.

### Inside the Security+ Exam

- Why should you take your time and read each question carefully during the exam?  
**`There might be multiple answers that are partially correct`**.  
Be sure that you find the best possible answer choice.

- Why are you not able to translate your score to a percentage on the Security+ exam?  
**`It uses a weighted scoring process`**.  
Some questions are more difficult than others and people take different versions of the exam, so questions are not all weighted the same.

- When you take the exam, you must bring two forms of identification. What qualifies as a form of primary identification?  
**`a passport`**  
A passport is a valid form of government-issued ID.

## 1.0 Attacks, Threats, and Vulnerabilities 24%

### Malware

- Which one of the following types of malware can spread without any user interaction?
**`Worm`**

- What language is commonly used to automate the execution of system administration tasks on Windows systems?
**`PowerShell`**.

- Which of the following is a common command-and-control mechanism for botnets?
**`IRC`**.
IRC is one of the well-known protocols being used in botnet C & C channels

- Where do fileless viruses often store themselves to maintain persistence?
**`Windows Registry`**.

- What type of malware delivers its payload only after certain conditions are met, such as specific date and time occurring?
**`logic bomb`**.

- Cryptolocker is an example of what type of malicious software?
**`ransomware`**.

### Understanding Attackers

- What device is often used in card cloning attacks?
**`skimmer`**.
Skimmers are devices that are used to steal payment data directly from the consumer’s payment card or from the payment infrastructure at a merchant location.

- Which one of the following controls is not particularly effective against the insider threat?
**`firewalls`**.

- What type of attacker is primarily concerned with advancing an ideological agenda?
**`hacktivist`**

- It is difficult to develop defenses against APT attackers.
**`TRUE`**.
An Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) is a type of cyberattack that is carried out by a group of skilled and sophisticated threat actors

### Threat Intelligence

- What is the basic principle underlying threat hunting activities?
**`assumption of compromise`**

- What security technology best assists with the automation of security workflows?
**`SOAR`**
**Security Orchestration, Automation, and Response(SOAR)**. It is a set of services and tools that automate cyberattack prevention and response.

- What approach to threat identification begins with a listing of all resources owned by the organization?
**`asset-focused`**

- The analysis of adversary TTP includes tools, techniques, and policies.?
**`FALSE`**
TTP stands for Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures. It is a structured framework that describes the behavior of a threat actor and their methods for executing a cyberattack.

- What type of organization facilitates cybersecurity information sharing among a industry-specific communities?
**`ISAC`**.
Correct, ISAC stands for Information Sharing and Analysis Center. It is a non-profit organization that provides a central resource for gathering information on cyber threats.

- Which of the following is a standardized language used to communicate security information between systems and organizations?
**`STIX`**
STIX stands for Structured Threat Information Expression. It is a language and serialization format used to exchange cyber threat intelligence (CTI)

- Which of the following is an example of an open-source intelligence resource?
**`all of these answers`**

### Social Engineering Attacks

- Linda's organization recently experienced a social engineering attack. The attacker called a help desk employee and persuaded her that she was a project manager on a tight deadline and locked out of her account. The help desk technician provided the attacker with access to the account. What social engineering principle was used?
**`urgency`**

- In what type of social engineering attack does the attacker physically observe the victim's activity?
**`shoulder surfing`**

- What type of website does the attacker use when waging a watering hole attack?
**`Site trusted by the end user`**.

- n what technique do attackers pose as their victim to elicit information from third parties?
**`pretexting`**
Pretexting is a form of social engineering in which an attacker creates a false scenario or identity to trick a victim into giving up sensitive information or access.

- What type of phishing attack focuses specifically on senior executives of a targeted organization?
**`whaling`**

### Common Attacks

- What type of artificial intelligence technique is most commonly associated with optimization?
**`prescriptive analytics`**

- The reuse of passwords across multiple sites makes an individual susceptible to __ attacks?
**`credential stuffing`**

- Dan is engaging in a password cracking attack where he uses precomputed hash values. What type of attack is Dan waging?
**`rainbow table`**
A rainbow table is a precomputed table for caching the outputs of a cryptographic hash function, usually for cracking password hashes

### Understanding Vulnerability Types

- Data breaches violate which principle of cybersecurity?
**`confidentiality`**
Data confidentiality refers to the protection of data from unauthorized access and disclosure, including means for protecting personal privacy and proprietary information.

- Which one of the following issues is not generally associated with the use of default configurations?
**`SQL injection flaws`**

- It is generally a bad practice to run software after the vendor's end of life.
**`TRUE`**

### Vulnerability Scanning

- Jason recently investigated a vulnerability discovered during a scan and, after exhaustive research, determined that the vulnerability did not exist. What type of error occurred?
**`false positive`**

- Which one of the following metrics does not contribute to the exploitability score for a vulnerability in CVSS?
**`confidentiality`**

- As Dave works with his colleagues in other IT disciplines, he notices that they use different names to refer to the same products and vendors. Which SCAP component would best assist him in reconciling these differences?
**`CPE( Common Platform Enumeration. It is a structured naming scheme for information technology systems, software, and packages.)`**
**Security Content Automation Protocol (SCAP)** is a method for using specific standards to enable automated vulnerability management, measurement, and policy compliance evaluation of systems deployed in an organization

- Helen has vulnerability scanners located at several points on her network. Which one of the following scanners is likely to provide the most complete picture of the vulnerabilities present on a public web server?
**`DMZ scanner`**

- Matt would like to limit the tests performed by his vulnerability scanner to only those that affect operating systems installed in his environment. Which setting should he modify?
**`plug-ins`**

- Renee is creating a prioritized list of scanning targets. Which one of the following is the least important criteria for her prioritization?
**`operating system`**

- Randy is developing a vulnerability management program. Which one of the following is not a common source of requirements for such a program?
**`sales team requests`**

- What **CVSS** value is the threshold at which PCI DSS requires remediation to achieve a passing scan?
**`4`**

### Penetration Testing and Exercises

- In a cybersecurity exercise, what team is responsible for serving as moderators?
**`white team`**

- Companies should always manage **bug bounty** programs internally.
**`FALSE`**

- In a __ penetration test, the attacker has no prior knowledge of the environment?
**`black box`** (penetration tests, testers conduct their work without any knowledge of the target environment)

## 2.0 Architecture and Design 21%

### Software Development Lifecycle

- What software development methodology uses four stages in an iterative process? **`Spiral`**

- What phase of the capability maturity model introduces the reuse of code across projects? **`Managed`**

- What component of a change management program includes final testing that the software functions properly? **`Release management`**

- The DevOps model prioritizes development efforts over operational tasks. **`FALSE`**

### Software Quality Assurance

- Static code testing software executes code to verify that it is functioning properly. **`FALSE`**

- What type of fuzz testing captures real software input and modifies it? **`Mutation fuzzing`**

- The main purpose of a code repository is to store the source files used in software development in a centralized location that allows for secure storage. **`TRUE`**

- What is the name of the application control technology built-in to Microsoft Windows? **`AppLocker`**

- ___ consist of shared code objects that perform related functions. **`Libraries`**

- What is the first step of a Fagan inspection? **`Planning`**

### Application Attacks

- What type of attack seeks to write data to areas of memory reserved for other purposes? **`Buffer overflow`**

- What type of object must a hacker typically access in order to engage in a session hijacking attack? **`Cookie`**

- Privilege escalation attacks require a normal user account to execute. **`TRUE`**

- What attack technique wraps malicious code around a legitimate driver? **`Driver shimming`**

- What condition occurs when a software package fails to release memory that it reserved for use? **`Memory leak`**

- Which of the following is a race condition attack? **`TOC/TOU`**

- Which one of the following is not a standard application hardening technique? Apply security patches promptly,**`Conduct cross-site scripting`**, Validate user input, Encrypt sensitive information

- What is the most effective defense against cross-site scripting attacks?  **`Input validation`**

- Which one of the following is not an effective defense against XSRF attacks?
**`network segmentation`**, user education, preventing the use of HTTP GET requests, automatic logouts

- Alan is analyzing his web server logs and sees several strange entries that contain strings similar to ../../ in URL requests. What type of attack was attempted against his server? **`Directory traversal`**





### Secure Coding Practices

- What protocol may be used to secure passwords in transit to a web application? 
**`TLS`**

- What Java clause is critical for error handling?
**`Try...Catch`**

- Developers wishing to sign their code must have a _____.
**`Digital certificate`**

- Database normalization should always be used to improve database security
**`FALSE`**

- Removing names and identification numbers is usually all that is necessary to deidentify a dataset.
**`FALSE`**

- What data obfuscation technique is intended to be reversible?
**`Tokenization`**

- What input validation approach works to exclude prohibited input?
**`Blacklisting`**

- Which one of the following technologies is an example of a parameterized query?
**`Stored procedure`**

## 3.0 Implementation 25%

### Encryption

- What is the simplest way to take an existing cipher and make it stronger?  
**`increase the length of the encryption key`**

- Which one of the following is NOT critical to the security of one-time pad operations?  
**`using AES in conjunction with the one-time pad`**  
The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a widely used encryption protocol that protects sensitive information from traditional brute-force attacks. It is a symmetric-key algorithm, meaning the same key is used for both encrypting and decrypting the data.

- Alice would like to be able to prove to Charlie that a message she received actually came from Bob. What cryptographic goal is Alice trying to enforce?  
**`non-repudiation`**

- Bob is planning to use a cryptographic cipher that rearranges the characters in a message. What type of cipher is Bob planning to use?  
**`transposition cipher`**

- What operation uses a cryptographic key to convert plaintext into ciphertext?  
**`encryption`**

- If Alice wants to send a message to Bob using symmetric cryptography, what key does she use to encrypt the message?  
**`shared secret key`**

### Symmetric Cryptography

- What length encryption key does the **Data Encryption Standard(DES)**use?  
**`56 bits`**  
The Data Encryption Standard (DES) is a symmetric-key algorithm that encrypts `data in blocks of size 64 bits` each. The key length of DES is 56 bits

### Key Management

### Public Key Infrastructure

### Cryptanalytic Attacks

### Cryptographic Applications

## 4.0 Operations and Incident Response 16%

## 5.0 Governance, Risk, and Compliance 14%
