---
title: CompTIA Data+ Domain Q&A
categories:
- data
excerpt: |
## CompTIA Data+ Domain excerpt
feature_text: |  
  ## @esccode
  “It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.” ― Andre Gide, Autumn Leaves
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
aside: true
---

## 1.0 Data Concepts and Environments 15%

### The Middle

- Find the median for this data set? 10, 30, 60, 75, 75 ?  
`60`  
The middle value in this data set is 60. So the median value is 60.

- Question 2 of 9, Find the mean for this data set? 1, 4, 5, 10, 20 ?  
`8`  
The average of the five numbers in the data set is 8. (1+4+5+10+20) / 5 = 8 .

- Question 3 of 9, Find the mode for the data set below? 10,30,30,30,40,40,55,75 ?  
`30`  
The mode is 30, because it the most common number in this data set. There are three 30's in the data set.

- Question 4 of 9, What is the mode for this data set? 1,2,5,5,7,10,10,30 ?
`This data set has two modes. Both 5 and 10 are modes.`  
This data set is bimodal. It has two modes.

- Question 5 of 9, There are a number of tools used to find the center of a data set. Which of the following statements is TRUE?
`The mean is the average of all the values in the data set.`
The mean of this data set (1,2,6) is average of all three number. The mean would be 3.

- Question 6 of 9, What is the median for this data set with six values? 30,40,40,60,80,120 ?
`50`
The median is 50. In this data set, the middle value is the average of the third and fourth data points, 40 and 60.

- Question 7 of 9, You have a simple sorted data set of {1, 2, 6} and decide the middle of your data is the value 3. Why is this a reasonable assertion?  
`The value 3 is the average value of the data set.`  
If the value of 2 were chosen instead, this would be the median for the sorted set.

- Question 8 of 9, You grade exams for your class, and the grades are {70, 73, 75, 78, 81, 85, 88, 92, 95, 100}. How do you determine the mode of this set, and what is its value?  
`The mode is the most frequently occurring value, and this data set has no mode.`  
Since each value only occurs once, this data set has no mode.

- Question 9 of 9, You have a basic sorted data set of {54, 70, 70, 80, 85, 98, 99, 100, 102}. What is the value 70 in this data set?  
`the mode`  
Recall that this is the most frequently occurring value.

### Variability

- Question 1 of 12, How do you calculate the standard deviation of a sample data set?  
`Sum the distance of each element of the set from the mean, divide this value by the number of elements minus 1, and take the square root.`  

- Question 2 of 12, How should you determine whether a data point is an outlier or not?  
`There is no standard definition to identify an outlier`.  
Once you identify a data point as an outlier, the next step is determining what you will do with it.



## 2.0 Data Mining 25%

## 3.0 Data Analysis 23%

### Data and Charts

- Question 1 of 2, You have a large data set of customer buying habits for an online store. How should you present this data to stakeholders interested in general purchasing trends?  
`Create a set of graphs or tables to present the data.`  
It is much easier to tell the data's story with tables and graphs.

- Question 2 of 2
Why are histograms useful for representing trends in a data set?  
`They display the frequency of events in a data set.`  
Note that histograms are more useful for large data sets.

## 4.0 Visualization 23%

## 5.0 Data Governance, Quality, and Controls 14%


