---
title: MARKDOWN Post
categories:
- MAN
- markdown
excerpt: |
  *Markdown* is a lightweight markup language for creating formatted text using a plain-text editor.
feature_text: |
  ## MARKDOWN
  MARKDOWN - convert text to HTML
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
aside: true
---
## MARKDOWN
- [MARKDOWN](#markdown)
  - [NAME](#name)
  - [SYNOPSIS](#synopsis)
  - [DESCRIPTION](#description)
  - [OPTIONS](#options)
  - [BUG](#bug)
  - [AUTHOR](#author)
  - [COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE](#copyright-and-license)

### NAME
> markdown - convert text to HTML

### SYNOPSIS
> *markdown `[ --html4tag ] [ --version ] [ -shortversion ] [ file ... ]`*

### DESCRIPTION

> Markdown is a text-to-HTML filter; it translates an easy-to-read / easy-to-write structured text format into HTML.  
Markdown's text format is most similar to that of plain text email, and supports features such as headers, \*emphasis\*, code blocks, blockquotes, and links.  

> Markdown's syntax is designed not as a generic markup language, but specifically to serve as a front-end (X)HTML.  You can use span-level HTML tags anywhere in a Markdown document, and you can use block level HTML tags (like \<div\> and \<rable\> as well).  

> for more information about Markdown's syntax, see:
[daringfireball.net/projects/markdown](http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/)

---
### OPTIONS
> Use `"--"` to end switch parsing. For example, to open a file named "-z", use:  
```markdown -- -z```

> `--html4tags`  
Use HTML 4 style for empty element tags, e.g.:  
`<br />`

> `-v, --version`  
Display Markdown's version number and copyright information.

> `-s, --shortversion`  
Display the short-form version number.

### BUG

> To file bug reports or feature requests (other than topics listed in the Caveats section above) please send email to:
`support@daringfireball.net`  
Please include with your report: (1) the example input; (2) the output you expected; (3) the output Markdown actually produced.

### AUTHOR

>[John Gruber](http://daringfireball.net)

>[PHP port and other contributions by Michel Fortin](http://michelf.com)

### COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
> Copyright (c) 2003-2004 [John Gruber](http://daringfireball.net) All rights reserved.

> Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

>* Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.



>* Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following  disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

>* Neither the name "Markdown" nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

> This software is provided by the copyright holders and contributors "as is" and any express or implied warranties, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose or disclaimed. In no event shall the copyright owner or contributors be liable for any direct, indirect, special, exemplary, or consequential damages(including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, or profits; or business interruption) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including neligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of this software, even if advised of the possibility of such damage.
