---
title: Data Dict
categories:
- data
excerpt: |
  ## data Dict excerpt
feature_text: |  
  ## Cdata Dict feature text
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
aside: true
---

- [data DICT](#data-dict)
- [CYBERSECURITY PHRASES](#cybersecurity-phrases)


## data DICT

## CYBERSECURITY PHRASES

>- *Zero-Day Vulnerability*: a vulnerability in a product that has been discovered by at least one researcher but has not yet been patched by the vendor.  
>- *Brutal- force attack:* In cryptography consists of an attacker submitting many passwords or passphrases with the hope of eventually guessing correctly. The attacker systematically checks all possible passwords and passphrases until the correct one is found.  
>- *SQL injection(SQLi)* is a cyberattack that injects malicious SQL code into an application, allowing the attacker to view or modify a database. According to the Open Web Application Security Project(OWASP), injection attacks, which include SQL injections, were third most serious web application security risk in 2021.  
>- *Vishing* is short for "voice phishing", which involves defrauding people over the phone, enticing them to divulge sensitive information. In this definition of vishing, the attacker attempts to grab the victim's data and use it for their own benefits - typicaly, to gain a financial advantage.  
>- *Rainbow Table Attack* is a password cracking method that uses a special table (a "rainbow table") to crack the password hashes in a database. Applications don't store password in plaintext, but instead encrypt password using hashes.  
>- *Common Vulnerability Scoring System(CVSS)* is method used to supply a qualitative measure of severity. CVSS is not a measure of risk. CVSS consists of three metric groups: Base, Temporal, and Environmental. The Base metrics produce a score ranging from 0 to 10, which can then be modified by scoring the Temporal and Environmental metrics [NATIONAL VULNERABILITY DATABASE](https://nvd.nist.gov/).  
>- *Security Information and Event Management(SIEM)* is a software solution that aggregates and analyzes activity from many different resources across your entire IT infrastructure. SIEM collects security data from network devices, servers, domain controllers, and more. It analyzes that data to identify trends, detect threts, and provide real-time security alerts. Siem solutions come as software, appliances, or managed services, and are also used to log security data and generate reports for compliance purposes. **SIEM system is performing correlation and analysis and identifying that an issue exists and then the SOAR system is automating the response to that issue**.
    - Open Source Security Information Management(OSSIM) is an open source security information and event management system, integrating a selection of tools designed to aid network administrators in computer security, intrusion detection and prevention. It is a popular open-source SIEM solution that provides event collection, normalization, and correlation. It is used to detect security threads and vulnerabilities in real-time.
>- *Geofencing* is a location-based service that uses GPS, Wi-Fi, or cellular data to trigger a pre-programmed action when a mobile device or RFID tag enters or exists a virtual boundaru, known as a geofence area, you receive a notification on your phone about a sale at a nearby store.

---
