---
title: Database Basics Overview
categories:
- data
feature_text: |
 ## @esccode
feature_image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
image: "https://picsum.photos/2560/600?image=733"
aside: true
---

<!-- ## Database Fundamental

### Explain database concepts and the purpose od a database

### Compare and contrast various database structures

### Summarize methods used to interface with databases -->

### Diving into the World of Databases!

Databases are the backbone of modern technology, essential for storing, organizing, and managing data efficiently. At their core, databases server as repositories that allow for the quick retrieval and manipulation of data, which is crucial for various applications, from websites to banking systems.

There are several database structures, each with its unique features and use cases. The most common ones include hierarchical, network, relational, and NoSQL databases. Hierarchical databases resemble a tree structure, perfect for data with a one-to-many relationship. Network databases are more flexible, allowing for many-to-many relationships. Relational databases use tables to store data, making them ideal for handling large volumes of structural data. NoSQL databases are designed for unstructured data and are known for their scalability and flexibility.

Interfacing with databases can be done through various methods such as SQL queries, stored procedures, or API calls. SQL, or Structured Query Language, is the standard language for relational database management systems, allowing for the creation, retrieval, updating, and deletion of data. Stored procedures are sets od SQL statements that are stored and executed on the server. APIs, or Application Programming Interfaces, provide a set of protocols for building and interacting with software applications, enabling communication between different software components.

### References

[Amazon eBook](https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0DCV1H46H)


